Did you learn calculus and then get G a or did you cheat and get the a like it's like you know the answer
Yeah, you're right. The a isn't the goal. It's the representation of your knowledge and your mastery
This is Michael Seibel with Dalton called well today. We're going to talk about setting goals
More specifically all of the pitfalls involved in setting or trying to accomplish goals
That's sort of founders. We work with 10 to fall for
Dalton, why don't you set this one up? Yeah, you know when we were talking about it this morning the the
phrase or the meme that came to mind was the one
Play stupid games when stupid prizes
You know and again what I think it means in this context is if if you set goals or if you start playing one specific game
That is silly to begin with or that hat that's like clearly a bad call
Yeah, the prizes the implications of that the things that you win are going to be equally silly or
Non-sensical or non-productive, okay, and so we see a lot of people
Who set goals to in effect play play kind of stupid games? Let's talk about the stupid games
And then we'll talk about the stupid prizes at the end. Those are those are maybe even more fun
So you know, I think it's it makes sense to split this up into
Mistakes that people make setting goals, and then mistakes people make trying to accomplish these goals
So I would say like the first one
And maybe I'll start with the simplest is when people set goals that are so aggressive they aren't motivational
And they're basically missing the understanding of what the purpose of setting a goal is right like you want to motivate yourself to
Act smarter faster more intelligently than you would otherwise
And often them people are setting goals that are too aggressive
Because they're motivated by fear you know in YC we see this all the time and what's an example of a too aggressive goal?
Like what do you think I can give you an example?
Oh, yeah, you know
I'll see a YC founder who comes in to YC just starting to build their product and
They tell me by demoday we want to have you know 30k an emerald and
And we want to do that because some alum told us that like that's how much emerald you need in order to raise money on demoday and it's just like
How many errors can be set in three sentences?
What's an example comes to your mind my most common example is someone
That believes once they launch a product it will immediately succeed and take off and so it's like we're gonna spend three months building this app
We're going to put it in the app store. We're gonna launch and
Then we're gonna get a hundred thousand D you yeah, yeah, it's yeah, like two weeks later
Yeah, it's always the plan is they're gonna put it out and then it's gonna immediately take off those are always the goals
that
That are rough and what's funny is we're always like why do you launch sooner?
So you have more time to make a grow after a launch is like no, no, no
We're gonna spend all the time making it good
And so they want to lose it's gonna immediately take off top the app starts a hundred percent
Why would we launch something bad then it won't take off Dalton? Jesus. Yeah, we we we we we're gonna talk to some influencers
You know, we're gonna do a social media launch. We've got it all lined up. We're have a wait list. So yeah top of the charts definitely
game on so
Both examples of being too aggressive
I'm the next one that comes up a lot is fake metrics
And we've talked about this a little bit
But you know for companies who
Charged their customers money somehow creating a goal incremented in something that's not money
Hey, my product cost $10 a month, but I'm measuring registered users
I want to hit you know a thousand registered users and it's like
That's weird like hell if users is gonna be the metric like why wouldn't it be active users, right?
Like just like if we're gonna be in that world. Well, that's too hard Michael. That's why fair
But if we're charging them, why wouldn't it be the amount of money we make like that seems even simpler
But I think you've seen a wide variety of fake metrics that goes way further than users, right?
Yeah
Okay, county and hits on your website. That's an oldie but a goodie
Yeah, yes, yes, counting downloads, but not registrations is a good one. Yeah
counting users as people
That started the registration process and didn't finish it
counting users as people that downloaded your product opened it closed it after five seconds and never open it again as users
We've heard that one
Just basically like a thousand and one different ways to avoid
the actual
Meaning of the metric which is to capture if it's working or not
You know it's like every every which way people are so creative in finding ways to like
Not actually measure the thing that they know they're supposed to be measuring and I can ever tell if they're doing it to
fool themselves or to fool like investors or authority you I'm saying like it's hard for me to tell when someone is practicing
Self-disruption that like number of downloads is the right metric or if they think that no one else realizes that that's obviously
Like no one can tell what they're trying to do we can tell and honestly it's probably both right? It's probably a combination of both right like
Um, okay, so here's another one that I see a lot especially with fundraising stupid comparatives so like
in 2021
Tiger gave this company a hundred million dollar funding when they accomplished blank
500,000 of ARR
therefore
We will be able to raise a hundred million dollars of funding when we accomplish
500,000 ARR right Michael right like there's no difference between you know
Summer 2022 and summer 2021
At all and that's how it works right is investors what they do is they just
Are always consistent and they always
Same decisions and it's easy for you to tell reading the tech crunch announcement. Why the investor made the investment
Right, it's clear like I read the article
Um, you know this VCE invested in this company were kind of like that company in some superficial ways
It's in the bag we got it
And then the other one that I love about it is like no Michael like that round was announced last week
That just happened
it's like
sorry, but
Lots of things are announced way after they happen
And so again, well, I think what we're saying about what's the stupid goal in this case
Playing the stupid game here is trying to create superficial resemblance to other things
Yes as opposed to deep
The thing is working or maybe there's a deeper analog to the other thing
But if you're just focusing on the very surface level stuff
Yeah, you're that is not a smart game to be playing
One other example maybe an old one we talked about in the past, you know with Facebook where you might be able to argue
Well, they raised money when they only had a small number of users right and then you completely punt on the fact that like
That small number of users were 95% 2 hour a day Facebook users. Yes. So it was like the engagement was like
incredible
Yeah, if you can replicate Facebook's engagement
Then you've got something versus replicating. I don't know. It's for college kids or I don't know people have very superficial
um